.TH XPANES 1 "MAY 2017" "User Commands" ""
.SH NAME
.PP
tmux\-xpanes, xpanes \- Ultimate terminal divider powered by tmux
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SS Normal mode
.PP
\fB\fCxpanes\fR [\fB\fCOPTIONS\fR] \fIargument\fP ...
.SS Pipe mode
.PP
command ... | \fB\fCxpanes\fR [\fB\fCOPTIONS\fR] [<\fIutility\fP> ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Split tmux window into multiple panes.
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Build command lines from given arguments & execute them on the panes.
.RE
.IP \(bu 2
Runnable from outside of tmux session.
.IP \(bu 2
Runnable from inside of tmux session.
.IP \(bu 2
Record operation log.
.IP \(bu 2
Layout arrangement for panes.
.IP \(bu 2
Generate command lines from standard input (Pipe mode).
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\fC\-h\fR, \fB\fC\-\-help\fR
Show this screen.
.TP
\fB\fC\-V\fR, \fB\fC\-\-version\fR
Show version.
.TP
\fB\fC\-c\fR <\fIutility\fP>
Specify <\fIutility\fP> which is executed as a command in each panes. If <\fIutility\fP> is omitted, \fB\fCecho(1)\fR is used.
.TP
\fB\fC\-d\fR, \fB\fC\-\-desync\fR
Make synchronize\-panes option off on new window.
.TP
\fB\fC\-e\fR
Execute given arguments as is.
.TP
\fB\fC\-I\fR <\fIrepstr\fP>
Replacing one or more occurrences of <\fIrepstr\fP> in <\fIutility\fP> given by \-c option. Default value of <\fIrepstr\fP> is {}.
.PP
\fB\fC\-l\fR <\fIlayout\fP>
  Specify a layout for a window. Recognized layout arguments are:
    \fB\fCt\fR    tiled (default)
    \fB\fCeh\fR   even\-horizontal
    \fB\fCev\fR   even\-vertical
    \fB\fCmh\fR   main\-horizontal
    \fB\fCmv\fR   main\-vertical
.TP
\fB\fC\-n\fR <\fInumber\fP>
Set the maximum number of arguments taken for each pane of <\fIutility\fP>.
.TP
\fB\fC\-S\fR <\fIsocket\-path\fP>
Specify a full alternative path to the server socket.
.TP
\fB\fC\-\-log\fR[\fB\fC=\fR<\fIdirectory\fP>]
Enable logging and store log files to ~/.cache/xpanes/logs or given <\fIdirectory\fP>.
.TP
\fB\fC\-\-log\-format=\fR<\fIFORMAT\fP>
File name of log files follows given <\fIFORMAT\fP>.
.TP
\fB\fC\-\-ssh\fR
Let <\fIutility\fP> 'ssh \-o StrictHostKeyChecking=no {}'.
.TP
\fB\fC\-\-stay\fR
Do not switch to new window.
.SS \fIFORMAT\fP
.PP
Default value is "[:ARG:].log.%Y\-%m\-%d_%H\-%M\-%S"
Interpreted sequences are:
  \fB\fC[:PID:]\fR   Process id of the tmux session. (e.g, 41531)
  \fB\fC[:ARG:]\fR   Argument name
.PP
In addition, sequences same as \fB\fCdate(1)\fR command are available.
For example:
  \fB\fC%Y\fR   year  (e.g, 1960)
  \fB\fC%m\fR   month (e.g, 01)
  \fB\fC%d\fR   date  (e.g, 31)
  And etc.
Other sequences are available. Please refer to \fB\fCdate(1)\fR manual.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Simple example
.PP
\fB\fCxpanes\fR 1 2 3 4
.PP
.RS
.nf
+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-+
│$ echo 1                       │$ echo 2                       │
│1                              │2                              │
│                               │                               │
│                               │                               │
│                               │                               │
│                               │                               │
│                               │                               │
│                               │                               │
+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-+
│$ echo 3                       │$ echo 4                       │
│3                              │4                              │
│                               │                               │
│                               │                               │
│                               │                               │
│                               │                               │
│                               │                               │
│                               │                               │
+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-+
.fi
.RE
.SH AUTHOR AND COPYRIGHT
.PP
Copyright (c) 2017 Yamada, Yasuhiro \[la]greengregson@gmail.com\[ra] Released under the MIT License.
\[la]https://github.com/greymd/tmux-xpanes\[ra]
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR tmux (1)
